Functional programming for beginners

Functions as values - input to functions and output from functions

	passing values into a function : list.Select(func); // passes each item in list ot func

Avoiding state mutation (no inplace changes to object)
	an object never changes,
	variables should never be reassigned
	eliminate descructive updates such as array[n] = x
	viewing or operating on a value that is gaurenteed not to be changed by someone else is useful in parallizing operations that work on the value not changing

	"When a program is written in a functional style from the outset"
	"imperative style in their method implementations, mutating state in place and using explicit control flow"

	Always aim for (pure functions often achive these ):
	• Modularity (dividing software into reusable components)
	• Separation of concerns (each component should only do one thing)
	• Layering (high-level components can depend on low-level components, but not vice versa)
	• Loose coupling (changes to a component shouldn’t affect components that depend on it)

	"C#’s greatest shortcoming: everything is mutable by default, and the programmer has to put in a substantial amount of effort to achieve immutability."
	 - readonly Fields are not default as they should be

	 common operations on sequences (Linq)
	 Mapping: passing each item in the sequence as each argument to the function - resulting in a new sequence as its result (Select)
	 Filtering: yields a new sequence that meets the predicate condition (Where)
	 Sorting: yields a new sequence according to the key (OrderBy and OrderBydescending)

	 Useful c# for functional style:

	 #getter only property can ONLY be set in the constructor below
	 public double Radius {get;}
	 #constructor
	 public Circle(double radius) => Radius = radius
	 # local function
	 double Square(double d) => Pow(d,2);
	 --> use it : Square(12.4)

	 functions that rely on instance members where these states can change aren't functional - so prefer static functions that dont use class member and only rely on input
	 This is why pulling in static functions from other namespaces are useful - "using static etc"

	 - the great thing about local functions is that they are named and only used in one place, like a lambda but its name gives it a description etc.

	 Tuples are a great way to define data in a dynamic structure without declaring a new type/class

	 remember

	 Func<T>, Func<T,R>, Func<T,T R> - functions that take paramters T, and return R
	 Action, Action<T>, Action<T,T> - operations that dont return anything they just perform 'actions'


	 IEnumerable<T> is more generic to List<T>

	 "The fact that functions can be represented with dictionaries also makes it possible to optimize computationally expensive functions by storing their computed results in a dictionary instead of recomputing them every time."

	 Higher order functions are functions that take functions and return functions.
	 HOF are subcontractors, taking in worker in the form of functions and calling those functions later.
	 HOFs help seperation of converns - you pass in the subcontractor which is defined and managed somewhere else sperately. 
	 HOFs help to do optional execution of provideded function(contractor) using conditions within 
	 passed in functions to HOfs often called callbacks or a continutation
	 In these instances, HOfs APPLY the function internally.

	 Function programimng focuses on functions and data transformations rather than objects.
	
	Pure functions only return values and exclusively only operate on arguments that are immutable
	These functions only depend on input and that input should never change (arguments are immutable)
	Pure functions do not throw exceptions.
	Pure functions cannot do any IO. this is indeterminate resources

	part of your codebaes that are pure functions can easily be
	a) parallelised b) lazy evaluated c) cacheable(memoization)

	Tuples are great at returning multiple pieces of information to the caller to deal with
	
	"Because its computation only depends on the input parameter, it can be made static without any problems, to make it a pure function"

	Make pure functions static. Avoid mutable static fields. Avoid direct calls to static methods that perform I/O.

	"A command is a simple data object that encapsulates details about an action to be carried out."
